Add What's New In DevTools (Chrome 80) (#8310)
google/WebFundamentals: src/content/en/updates/2019/12/devtools.md

project_path: /web/_project.yaml
book_path: /web/updates/_book.yaml
description: Support for let redeclarations in the Console, improved WebAssembly debugging, and more.

{# wf_updated_on: 2019-12-05 #}
{# wf_published_on: 2019-12-05 #}
{# wf_tags: chrome80, devtools, devtools-whatsnew #}
{# wf_featured_image: /web/updates/images/generic/chrome-devtools.png #}
{# wf_featured_snippet: Support for let redeclarations in the Console, improved WebAssembly debugging, and more. #}
{# wf_blink_components: Platform>DevTools #}

# What's New In DevTools (Chrome 80) {: .page-title }

{% include "web/_shared/contributors/kaycebasques.html" %}

## Support for `let` redeclarations in the Console {: #let }

> The Console now supports redeclarations of `let` statements. The inability to redeclare

Reviewer: `let` and `class`

`let` statements was a common annoyance for web developers who use the Console to experiment with
new JavaScript code.

<aside class="warning">

>   Redeclaring a <code>let</code> statement in a script will still cause a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Redeclaring a <code>let</code> statement in a script outside of the Console or within a single Console input still causes a
```

  <code>SyntaxError</code>. <code>let</code> redeclarations only work in the Console.
</aside>

Previously, when redeclaring a local variable with `let`, the Console would throw an error:

<figure>
  <img src="../../images/2019/12/letbefore.png"
       alt="A screenshot of the Console in Chrome 78 showing that the let redeclaration fails."/>
</figure>

Now, the Console allows the redeclaration:

<figure>
  <img src="../../images/2019/12/letafter.png"
       alt="A screenshot of the Console in Chrome 80 showing that the let redeclaration succeeds."/>
</figure>

{# https://chromium.googlesource.com/devtools/devtools-frontend/+/53a8548ce03957e7704ae88b780dfa019bf967e0 #}

Chromium issue [#1004193](https://crbug.com/1004193)

## Improved WebAssembly debugging {: #webassembly }

DevTools has started to support the [DWARF Debugging Standard](http://dwarfstd.org/),

> which means that you can now step over code, set breakpoints, and resolve stack traces in your

Reviewer 2: Hmm... note sure if / how to clarify this, but should we make a distinction that you could do all that with source maps before, but in a more limited manner?

Author: Changed to `increased support`

source languages within DevTools.
Check out [Improved WebAssembly debugging in Chrome DevTools](/web/updates/2019/12/webassembly)
for the full story.

<figure>

>   <img src="../../images/2019/12/dwarf.png"

Reviewer: This screenshot looks different than all the others. Can we get one in the same style? @rreverser, do you have a demo link handy that can be used to reproduce this?

Reviewer 2: Note that this is a separate post, and screenshots within it are consistent... but yeah, they're not from macOS like the usual screenshots seem to be.

I don't have a demo link. I feel like I've had to answer this question quite frequently lately 😅 unfortunately, it's not possible to provide one, because DWARF uses local file paths and so debugging would work only on the same machine, at least until we implement remapping UI or something.

But, given that this is in Chromium and if you have Mac, I'm happy to sit down with you and remake the screenshots.

Reviewer 2: Ah, in this context it's actually not a separate post, so yeah, def need to change.

Author: Thanks for the updated screenshot @mathiasbynens & @RReverser

  initiators and dependencies</a>.
</aside>

{# https://chromium.googlesource.com/devtools/devtools-frontend/+/df0ca90392989452ad997537308e52a9257f3377 #}

Chromium issue [#842488](https://crbug.com/842488)

### Highlight the selected network request in the Overview {: #overview }

After you click a network resource in order to inspect it, the Network panel now puts a blue border 
around that resource in the **Overview**. This can help you detect if the network request is 
happening earlier or later than expected.

<figure>
  <img src="../../images/2019/12/overview.png"
       alt="A screenshot of the Overview pane highlighting the inspected resource."/>
</figure>

{# https://chromium.googlesource.com/devtools/devtools-frontend/+/3c77a5937675b59056598afd236b22eaeedc679f #}

Chromium issue [#988253](https://crbug.com/988253)

### URL and path columns in the Network panel {: #columns }

Use the new **Path** and **URL** columns in the **Network** panel to see the absolute path
or full URL of each network resource.

<figure>
  <img src="../../images/2019/12/columns.png"
       alt="A screenshot of the new Path and URL columns in the Network panel."/>
</figure>

> Right-click the **Waterfall** table header and select **Path** or **URL** to show the new

Reviewer 3: This should work with any column header, not just the waterfall.

Author: @ghodir yes that was the old functionality that I was familiar with. Looks like a regression has been introduced, because it currently only works on the **Waterfall**.

columns.

{# https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/923cd866fb089619bbbd971ff16cd7d766c1fb67 #}

Chromium issue [#993366](https://crbug.com/993366)

> ### Updated User-Agent string for Firefox {: #firefox }

Reviewer: There's some open CLs pending review here to update UA strings for other browsers as well, both in the Network Conditions tab and in the Device Toolbar. I'm hopeful that by the M80 branch point, they'll have landed.

IMHO for this section we could just state something like:

```md
### Updated User-Agent strings

DevTools supports setting a custom User-Agent string through the Network Conditions tab but also through the Device Toolbar (as part of device emulation). The User-Agent string affects the `User-Agent` HTTP header attached to network resources, but also the value of `navigator.userAgent`.

The User-Agent strings in our predefined lists have been updated to reflect modern browser versions.
```

The **Network Conditions** tab enables you to instruct Chrome to send different User-Agent
header values when Chrome requests network resources. The User-Agent strings for Firefox have been
updated.

<figure>
  <img src="../../images/2019/12/useragent.png"
       alt="A screenshot of the User Agent menu in the Network Conditions tab."/>
</figure>

To access **Network Conditions**, [open the Command Menu](/web/tools/chrome-devtools/command-menu)
and run the `Show Network Conditions` command.

{# https://chromium.googlesource.com/devtools/devtools-frontend/+/f05ffb295a3a4c36f8a5154285f6641a87f1f8b5 #}

Chromium issue [#1029031](https://crbug.com/1029031)

## Audits panel updates {: #audits }

### Plugins {: #plugins }

> TODO

Author: TODO
